"speaker 1: My name is Fo.
I'm a PhD student in Dr. Mao's lab.
This is my fifth year here at Cornell University,
and one of the first project that I started
on, a protein that's related to a bacteria
called legionella pneumophila.
This bacterium can get into a body through
contaminated aerosol.
Once it is taken up by the macrophages the
bacteria can replicate in our cells, and eventually
take control over it.
As a result it can lead to life threatening
pneumonia.
It is called legionnaire's disease.
United States alone, between 8,000 and 18,000
people are diagnosed annually.
Once you get infected the fatality rate is
between 20 to 30 percent.
So far there hasn't been a good drug that
specifically targeted this bacteria.
Our research is to study legionella proteins
so we can develop better therapeutics to cure
this disease.
My research career started much later.
It was really after college.
I grew up in, in Taiwan.
As a kid I never thought of being a scientist.
I wanna be a basketball player.
And I came to the states in 1995.
I'm always curious about bacteria.
It really got me hooked.
Look under the microscope that you can see
all these amazing living organism.
After I graduated from University of Washington
I applied for a research technician position,
and fortunately I was able to get the job,
and I worked for two years.
I had a really good mentor.
The field, my passion for science and really
gave me the confidence to apply to graduate
school, and the reason why I'm here at Cornell
University.
I'm fortunate to be doing research at Weill
Institute for Cell and Molecular Biology.
This building is designed to allow for open
collaboration and communication among different
labs, so as a graduate student it is a privilege
to have this environment where you feel very
comfortable talking to a leading scientist
in their respective fields.
To study bacterial protein you can actually
manipulate the bacteria to mass produce your
protein and biochemically purify them.
That process requires molecular cloning, growing
your bacteria cells in large quantity, and
for me, a lot of discussion with my colleagues.
The entire process can take up to one to two
months, but when you see your purified protein
it's amazing feeling and it really opens the
door for a lot of experiments by structural
biology approach, also cell biology.
Right now I'm using mammalian cells to study
the role of proteins that are excreted by
legionella.
Cells are typically preserved at below freezing
temperature.
However, once they are thawed, they have to
be kept in a special incubator.
Most of the experiments are performed in the
fume hood.
The reason I use these cells are so I can
engineer a fluorescent tag to my protein and
use confocal microscope to look at exactly
where the protein's located inside the cell.
In my first three years here I was interested
in protein structure.
What I find fascinating about protein structure
is that you can figure out the, the shape
at the atomic level.
The method that I use is called X-ray crystallography,
which requires protein crystals that are only
formed under very limited conditions, but
luckily there is a robot that helps with this.
Once you see the crystal you can shoot X-ray
beam through it to obtain very useful structure
information, and using that the 3-dimensional
structure can be revealed."